FIPS/config.md, before:

| FIP   | Title         | Status | Category               | Author                                     | Created    |
| ----- | ------------- | ------ | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ---------- |
| -     | Config  | Draft  | Core       | Who Soup \<<who.soup@gmail.com>\><br>Jay Cheroske \<<jay@bedrocksolutions.io>\>       | 20190520   |


# Summary

Unifiying and simplifying the way the config file (`factomd.conf`) and the command line parameters are loaded. Settings are arranged by common functionality with the ability to overwrite any setting on a network-by-network basis. All settings available in the config are also command line parameters, with the command line parameter superceding the configuration setting. Command line parameters are named the same as config file options, with short names for select, high use settings.

# Motivation

At the moment, it's very inconvenient to add new flags to the node since parsing is spread out over several files and it's not clear where or which settings are overwritten in what way. The config file is defined in `util/config.go` and parsed by `state/state.go` during `engine/NetStart.go`, which will initialize the state. Parameters are parsed by `engine/factomParams.go` in `main()` and then overwritten throughout `NetStart`. Adding a config setting with flag requires editing three different packages and four files. 

If you are running multiple nodes on the same machine, such as for development work, it's also not possible to use the same configuration for every use-case (main vs testnet) and files have to be swapped. Being able to set network-specific settings would enable one config file for multiple networks. 


# Specification

The config file and command line parameters will be evaluated before the factomd node is run

1. Parse the command line flags and check for valid names, stop execution if there are invalid names or values
2. Create a configuration object with default values
3. Check if the "config" parameter is present, otherwise use default path, and parse the file
4. Overwrite the default configuration with values from the config
5. Determine the network from the config file and command line flag
6. Overwrite the config default values with custom values from the network's group
7. Overwrite settings with the ones specified by the command line flags
8. The configuration is passed to the Factomd() call that loads the node

The configuration file consists of the following sections and settings, which are all case insensitive except for the names of the networks:
```
; ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
; Configurations for factomd
; ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
; All settings are case insensitive and you can override specific settings in
; the factomd section with network-by-network settings by adding a 
; [factomd.NETWORKNAME] category, e.g.: [factomd.MAIN] or [factomd.fct_community_test]
; These settings will only take effect for that network
;
; All settings are case-insensitive with a command line equivalent of "--name=value",
; e.g.: "--blocktime=10m"
;
; Time-based variables allow semantic input between seconds (s)
; minutes (m), hours (h), days (d), defaulting to seconds:
;   180 = 180s = 3m
;   48h = 2d
;
[factomd]
; ---------------- GLOBAL ----------------
; The name of the network to connect to, such as MAIN, LOCAL, TEST, or fct_community_test
;network = MAIN

; The directory to keep factom data in. If left blank it defaults to ~/.factom/m2/ on *nix
; and %HOMEPATH%/.factom/m2/ on windows
;homeDir = 

; ---------------- CONSENSUS ----------------
; The time to build one directory block
;blockTime = 10m

; How long to wait for authority nodes each factom-minute before faulting them. Should be higher
; than a tenth of "blockTime"
;faultTimeout = 2m

; How long an audit node has to volunteer before moving to the next one
;roundTimeout = 30s

; Enable to force a node to always run as follower
;forceFollower = false

; The Oracle Chain governs the current exchange rate of Factoshi to EC
;oracleChain = 111111118d918a8be684e0dac725493a75862ef96d2d3f43f84b26969329bf03

; The public key that validates entries to the Oracle chain
;oraclePublicKey = daf5815c2de603dbfa3e1e64f88a5cf06083307cf40da4a9b539c41832135b4a

; The identity that signed the genesis block.
;bootstrapIdentity = 38bab1455b7bd7e5efd15c53c777c79d0c988e9210f1da49a99d95b3a6417be9
;bootstrapKey = cc1985cdfae4e32b5a454dfda8ce5e1361558482684f3367649c3ad852c8e31a

; Disable adding balance hashes to ACKs
;noBalanceHash = false

; Delay time for when to start processing requests for missing messages
;startDelay = 0s

; ---------------- IDENTITY ----------------
; The identity chain of this node.
;identityChain =

; The private key of the identity used to sign messages. Ed25519 key in hexadecimal.
;identityPrivateKey = 4c38c72fc5cdad68f13b74674d3ffb1f3d63a112710868c9b08946553448d26d

; The public key of the identity used to sign messages. Ed25519 key in hexadecimal.
;identityPublicKey = cc1985cdfae4e32b5a454dfda8ce5e1361558482684f3367649c3ad852c8e31a

; The height at which to activate the identity (for brainswaps)
;identityActivationHeight = 0


; ---------------- WEB SERVICES ----------------
; The port at which to access the factomd API
;apiPort = 8088

; The mode of operation of the control panel
; Choices are: DISABLED | READONLY | READWRITE
;controlPanel = READONLY

; The web-port at which to access the control panel
;controlPanelPort = 8090

; The display name of the node on the control panel.
;controlPanelName = 

; If enabled, the pprof server will accept connections outside of localhost
;pprofExpose = false

; Port for the pprof frontend
;pprofPort = 6060

; Pprof memory profiling rate. 0 to disable, 1 for everything. default is 512kibi
;pprofMPR = 524288


; If TLS is enabled, the control panel and API will only be accessible via HTTPS. If you
; have a certificate, you can specify the location of the certificate and PEM key. 
; If you enable TLS without an existing certificate, factomd will generate a self-signed
; certificate inside HomeDir, using the specified addresses in addition to localhost
;webTLS = false
;webTLSKey =
;webTLSCertificate =

; The addresses to include in the certificate. Repeat for every address.
;webTLSAddress = 

; If set, the control panel and API will require basic http authentication to use
;webUsername = 
;webPassword = 

; This sets the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) header for the API and Walletd.
; If left blank, CORS is disabled
;webCORS = 


; ---------------- DATABASE ----------------
; Which database architecture to use
; Choice of LDB | BOLT | MAP
;   LDB: LevelDB (default)
;   BOLT: BoltDB
;   MAP: in-memory only database
;dbType = LDB

; Set a unique identifier included in the path if you want run multiple databases in the same HomeDir
;dbSlug = 

; Sub-path relative to HomeDir to store Ldb files
;dbLdbPath = database/ldb

; Sub-path relative to HomeDir for BoltDB
;dbBoltPath = database/bolt

; If enabled, factomd will turn on the block extractor to export blocks to disk
;dbExportData = false

; Sub-path relative to HomeDir for exporting data
;dbExportDataPath = database/export/

; Sub-path relative to HomeDir for the block extractor
;dbDataStorePath = data/export

; Disable the use of the FastBoot file to cache block validation
;dbNoFastBoot = false

; Create a FastBoot entry every X blocks
;dbFastBootRate = 1000

; ---------------- P2P ----------------
; Disable the peer to peer network
;p2pDisable = false

; The filename suffix of the peers file which is added to the current network
;p2pPeerFileSuffix = "peers.json"

; The default ports used for network connections
;p2pPort = 8108

; The URL of the seed file to use for bootstrapping.
;p2pSeed =

; How many peers to broadcast messages to
;p2pFanout = 16

; A list of peers that the node will always connect to in the format of "host:port". Repeatable.
; Example to add three special peers:
;   p2pSpecialPeer = "123.456.78.9:8108"
;   p2pSpecialPeer = "97.86.54.32:8108"
;   p2pSpecialPeer = "56.78.91.23:8108"
;p2pSpecialPeer = 

; Which peers the node should allow.
; Choices:
;   NORMAL: allows all connections (default)
;   ACCEPT: the node accepts incoming connection but only dials to special peers
;   REFUSE: the node dials to special peers but refuses all incoming connections
;p2pConnectionPolicy = NORMAL

; How long peers have to send or receive a message before timing out
;p2pTimeout = 5m


; ---------------- LOGGING ----------------
; The level of messages to log. Higher levels are included
; Choices (from lowest to highest level):
;   DEBUG | INFO | NOTICE | WARNING | ERROR | CRITICAL | ALERT | EMERGENCY | NONE
;logLevel = ERROR

; The sub-path of HomeDir to store logs in
;logPath = database/Log

; If enabled, log files will be written in JSON
;logJson = false

; The URL of a logstash server to send logs to. Leave blank to disable
;logLogstash = 

; Specify a file to write a copy of StdOut to file
;logStdOut =

; Specify a file to write a copy of StdErr to file
;logStdErr = 

; A regular expression of which message logs to save in the current working directory
; For more details see https://factomize.com/forums/threads/logging-in-factomd.1766/
;logMessages = 

; Save DBStates to disk after being processed
; Files will be saved to dbLdbPath/<network>/dbstates/processed_dbstate_<height>.block
;logDBStates = false


; ---------------- SIMULATION ----------------
; Disable keyboard input to the console
;simNoInput = false

; How many simulated nodes to launch with a minimum of one
;simCount = 1

; The node to focus on at startup. The first node starts at 0
;simFocus = 0

; The network structure of the simulated network
; Choices: FILE | SQUARE | LONG | LOOPS | ALOT | ALOT+ | TREE | CIRCLES
;simNet = LONG

; The path to the sim node file for simNet=FILE
;simNetFile = 

; Simulated drop rate for packets. Number of messages to drop out of 1000
;simDropRate = 0

; Time offset between clocks in simulated nodes
;simTimeOffset = 0s

; If enabled, the node will keep track of recently sent messages that can be displayed
; in the console with the "m" command
;simRuntimeLog = false

; Pause the processing of entries in the processlist. Equivalent to the "W" command
;simWait = false


; ---------------- DEBUG ----------------
; The mode of the debug console.
; Choices:
;   OFF: no debug console (default)
;   LOCAL: only accepts connections from localhost and launches a terminal
;   ON: accepts remote connections
;debugConsole = OFF

; The port to launch the console server
;debugConsolePort = 8093

; The behavior of validating chain heads on boot
; Choices:
;   OFF: don't check at all
;   IGNORE: check but don't fix
;   ON: check and automatically fix invalid chain heads
;chainHeadFix = ON

; If enabled, all entries for one factom-minute will be handled by a VM index 0
; instead of being distributed over all VMs
;oneLeader = false

; Keep the node's DBState even if the signature doesn't match with the majority
;keepMismatch = false

; Force the height on the second pass sync. Set to -1 to disable, 0 to force a complete sync
;forceSync2Height = -1


; ---------------- JOURNALING ----------------
; Path to the journal file. Journaling disabled if left blank.
;journalFile = 

; Whether to create a new journal or play back an existing journal
; Choices: CREATE | READ
;journalMode = READ

; Force the node to run the journal as a specific node type.
; Choices:
;   AUTO: let node determine (default)
;   FOLLOWER: node is a follower
;   LEADER: node is a leader
;journalType = AUTO


; ---------------- PLUGINS ----------------
; In order for plugins to be enabled, the binaries have to be located inside the plugin folder
; Path to the plugin binaries folder.
;pluginPath = 

; Enable torrent sync plugin 
;pluginTorrent = false

; If enabled, the node is an upload in the torrent network
;pluginTorrentUpload = false


; ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
; Configurations for factom-walletd
; ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Walletd]
; These are the username and password that factom-walletd requires
; This file is also used by factom-cli to determine what login to use
WalletRpcUser = 
WalletRpcPass =

; These define if the connection to the wallet should be encrypted, and if it is, what files
; are the secret key and the public certificate.  factom-cli uses the certificate specified here if TLS is enabled.
; To use default files and paths leave /full/path/to/... in place.
WalletTlsEnabled                      = false
WalletTlsPrivateKey                   = "/full/path/to/walletAPIpriv.key"
WalletTlsPublicCert                   = "/full/path/to/walletAPIpub.cert"

; This is where factom-walletd and factom-cli will find factomd to interact with the blockchain
; This value can also be updated to authorize an external ip or domain name when factomd creates a TLS cert
FactomdLocation                       = "localhost:8088"

; This is where factom-cli will find factom-walletd to create Factoid and Entry Credit transactions
; This value can also be updated to authorize an external ip or domain name when factom-walletd creates a TLS cert
WalletdLocation                       = "localhost:8089"

; Enables wallet database encryption on factom-walletd. If this option is enabled, an unencrypted database
; cannot exist. If an unencrypted database exists, the wallet will exit.
WalletEncrypted                       = false


[factomd.MAIN]
FERPublicKey: daf5815c2de603dbfa3e1e64f88a5cf06083307cf40da4a9b539c41832135b4a
blockTime: 10m
p2pPort: 8108
p2pSeed: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FactomProject/factomproject.github.io/master/seed/mainseed.txt

[factomd.TEST]
p2pFERPublicKey: 1d75de249c2fc0384fb6701b30dc86b39dc72e5a47ba4f79ef250d39e21e7a4f
p2pPort: 8109
p2pSeed: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FactomProject/factomproject.github.io/master/seed/testseed.txt

[factomd.LOCAL]
p2pFERPublicKey: 3b6a27bcceb6a42d62a3a8d02a6f0d73653215771de243a63ac048a18b59da29
p2pPort: 8110
p2pSeed: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FactomProject/factomproject.github.io/master/seed/localseed.txt

[factomd.fct_community_test]
p2pFERPublicKey: 58cfccaa48a101742845df3cecde6a9f38037030842d34d0eaa76867904705ae
blockTime: 10m
bootstrapIdentity: 8888882f5002ff95fce15d20ecb7e18ae6cc4d5849b372985d856b56e492ae0f
bootstrapKey: 58cfccaa48a101742845df3cecde6a9f38037030842d34d0eaa76867904705ae
p2pPort: 8110
p2pSeed: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FactomProject/communitytestnet/master/seeds/testnetseeds.txt
```

## Short Flags

* `-n` short for `Network`
* `-h` short for `HomeDir`
* `-b` short for `BlockTime`
* `-db` short for `dbType` 
* `-fb` short for `dbFastBoot`
* `-p` short for `p2pSpecialPeer`
* `-l` short for `logLevel`
* `-m` short for `logMessages`
* `-sc` short for `simCount`
* `-sn` short for `simNet`

# Implementation

The configuration code is placed in its own "config" package under `factomd/config`. To parse command line flags, the `go-flags` package is used as it provides built-in support for grouping, short/long flags, and enum types. To parse the config file, the `go-ini` package is used to improve malleability and improved group support (like subgroups for networks).

The configuration itself is only specified in one location: the `config/configuration.go` file, which contains the struct that the config is parsed into. 

# Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via
[CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

changing lists to comma separated

FIPS/config.md, after:

| FIP   | Title         | Status | Category               | Author                                     | Created    |
| ----- | ------------- | ------ | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ---------- |
| -     | Config  | Draft  | Core       | Who Soup \<<who.soup@gmail.com>\><br>Jay Cheroske \<<jay@bedrocksolutions.io>\>       | 20190520   |


# Summary

Unifiying and simplifying the way the config file (`factomd.conf`) and the command line parameters are loaded. Settings are arranged by common functionality with the ability to overwrite any setting on a network-by-network basis. All settings available in the config are also command line parameters, with the command line parameter superceding the configuration setting. Command line parameters are named the same as config file options, with short names for select, high use settings.

# Motivation

At the moment, it's very inconvenient to add new flags to the node since parsing is spread out over several files and it's not clear where or which settings are overwritten in what way. The config file is defined in `util/config.go` and parsed by `state/state.go` during `engine/NetStart.go`, which will initialize the state. Parameters are parsed by `engine/factomParams.go` in `main()` and then overwritten throughout `NetStart`. Adding a config setting with flag requires editing three different packages and four files. 

If you are running multiple nodes on the same machine, such as for development work, it's also not possible to use the same configuration for every use-case (main vs testnet) and files have to be swapped. Being able to set network-specific settings would enable one config file for multiple networks. 


# Specification

The config file and command line parameters will be evaluated before the factomd node is run

1. Parse the command line flags and check for valid names, stop execution if there are invalid names or values
2. Create a configuration object with default values
3. Check if the "config" parameter is present, otherwise use default path, and parse the file
4. Overwrite the default configuration with values from the config
5. Determine the network from the config file and command line flag
6. Overwrite the config default values with custom values from the network's group
7. Overwrite settings with the ones specified by the command line flags
8. The configuration is passed to the Factomd() call that loads the node

The configuration file consists of the following sections and settings, which are all case insensitive except for the names of the networks:
```
; ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
; Configurations for factomd
; ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
; All settings are case insensitive and you can override specific settings in
; the factomd section with network-by-network settings by adding a 
; [factomd.NETWORKNAME] category, e.g.: [factomd.MAIN] or [factomd.fct_community_test]
; These settings will only take effect for that network
;
; All settings are case-insensitive with a command line equivalent of "--name=value",
; e.g.: "--blocktime=10m"
;
; Time-based variables allow semantic input between seconds (s)
; minutes (m), hours (h), days (d), defaulting to seconds:
;   180 = 180s = 3m
;   48h = 2d
;
[factomd]
; ---------------- GLOBAL ----------------
; The name of the network to connect to, such as MAIN, LOCAL, TEST, or fct_community_test
;network = MAIN

; The directory to keep factom data in. If left blank it defaults to ~/.factom/m2/ on *nix
; and %HOMEPATH%/.factom/m2/ on windows
;homeDir = 

; ---------------- CONSENSUS ----------------
; The time to build one directory block
;blockTime = 10m

; How long to wait for authority nodes each factom-minute before faulting them. Should be higher
; than a tenth of "blockTime"
;faultTimeout = 2m

; How long an audit node has to volunteer before moving to the next one
;roundTimeout = 30s

; Enable to force a node to always run as follower
;forceFollower = false

; The Oracle Chain governs the current exchange rate of Factoshi to EC
;oracleChain = 111111118d918a8be684e0dac725493a75862ef96d2d3f43f84b26969329bf03

; The public key that validates entries to the Oracle chain
;oraclePublicKey = daf5815c2de603dbfa3e1e64f88a5cf06083307cf40da4a9b539c41832135b4a

; The identity that signed the genesis block.
;bootstrapIdentity = 38bab1455b7bd7e5efd15c53c777c79d0c988e9210f1da49a99d95b3a6417be9
;bootstrapKey = cc1985cdfae4e32b5a454dfda8ce5e1361558482684f3367649c3ad852c8e31a

; Disable adding balance hashes to ACKs
;noBalanceHash = false

; Delay time for when to start processing requests for missing messages
;startDelay = 0s

; ---------------- IDENTITY ----------------
; The identity chain of this node.
;identityChain =

; The private key of the identity used to sign messages. Ed25519 key in hexadecimal.
;identityPrivateKey = 4c38c72fc5cdad68f13b74674d3ffb1f3d63a112710868c9b08946553448d26d

; The public key of the identity used to sign messages. Ed25519 key in hexadecimal.
;identityPublicKey = cc1985cdfae4e32b5a454dfda8ce5e1361558482684f3367649c3ad852c8e31a

; The height at which to activate the identity (for brainswaps)
;identityActivationHeight = 0


; ---------------- WEB SERVICES ----------------
; The port at which to access the factomd API
;apiPort = 8088

; The mode of operation of the control panel
; Choices are: DISABLED | READONLY | READWRITE
;controlPanel = READONLY

; The web-port at which to access the control panel
;controlPanelPort = 8090

; The display name of the node on the control panel.
;controlPanelName = 

; If enabled, the pprof server will accept connections outside of localhost
;pprofExpose = false

; Port for the pprof frontend
;pprofPort = 6060

; Pprof memory profiling rate. 0 to disable, 1 for everything. default is 512kibi
;pprofMPR = 524288


; If TLS is enabled, the control panel and API will only be accessible via HTTPS. If you
; have a certificate, you can specify the location of the certificate and PEM key. 
; If you enable TLS without an existing certificate, factomd will generate a self-signed
; certificate inside HomeDir, using the specified addresses in addition to localhost
;webTLS = false
;webTLSKey =
;webTLSCertificate =

; The addresses to include in the certificate, comma separated list
; Example: "localhost,127.0.0.1,testserver.com"
;webTLSAddress = 

; If set, the control panel and API will require basic http authentication to use
;webUsername = 
;webPassword = 

; This sets the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) header for the API and Walletd.
; If left blank, CORS is disabled
;webCORS = 


; ---------------- DATABASE ----------------
; Which database architecture to use
; Choice of LDB | BOLT | MAP
;   LDB: LevelDB (default)
;   BOLT: BoltDB
;   MAP: in-memory only database
;dbType = LDB

; Set a unique identifier included in the path if you want run multiple databases in the same HomeDir
;dbSlug = 

; Sub-path relative to HomeDir to store Ldb files
;dbLdbPath = database/ldb

; Sub-path relative to HomeDir for BoltDB
;dbBoltPath = database/bolt

; If enabled, factomd will turn on the block extractor to export blocks to disk
;dbExportData = false

; Sub-path relative to HomeDir for exporting data
;dbExportDataPath = database/export/

; Sub-path relative to HomeDir for the block extractor
;dbDataStorePath = data/export

; Disable the use of the FastBoot file to cache block validation
;dbNoFastBoot = false

; Create a FastBoot entry every X blocks
;dbFastBootRate = 1000

; ---------------- P2P ----------------
; Disable the peer to peer network
;p2pDisable = false

; The filename suffix of the peers file which is added to the current network
;p2pPeerFileSuffix = "peers.json"

; The default ports used for network connections
;p2pPort = 8108

; The URL of the seed file to use for bootstrapping.
;p2pSeed =

; How many peers to broadcast messages to
;p2pFanout = 16

; A comma-separated list of peers that the node will always connect to in the format of "host:port". 
; Example to add four special peers:
;   p2pSpecialPeers = "123.456.78.9:8108,97.86.54.32:8108,56.78.91.23:8108,hostname:8108"
;p2pSpecialPeers = 

; Which peers the node should allow.
; Choices:
;   NORMAL: allows all connections (default)
;   ACCEPT: the node accepts incoming connection but only dials to special peers
;   REFUSE: the node dials to special peers but refuses all incoming connections
;p2pConnectionPolicy = NORMAL

; How long peers have to send or receive a message before timing out
;p2pTimeout = 5m


; ---------------- LOGGING ----------------
; The level of messages to log. Higher levels are included
; Choices (from lowest to highest level):
;   DEBUG | INFO | NOTICE | WARNING | ERROR | CRITICAL | ALERT | EMERGENCY | NONE
;logLevel = ERROR

; The sub-path of HomeDir to store logs in
;logPath = database/Log

; If enabled, log files will be written in JSON
;logJson = false

; The URL of a logstash server to send logs to. Leave blank to disable
;logLogstash = 

; Specify a file to write a copy of StdOut to file
;logStdOut =

; Specify a file to write a copy of StdErr to file
;logStdErr = 

; A regular expression of which message logs to save in the current working directory
; For more details see https://factomize.com/forums/threads/logging-in-factomd.1766/
;logMessages = 

; Save DBStates to disk after being processed
; Files will be saved to dbLdbPath/<network>/dbstates/processed_dbstate_<height>.block
;logDBStates = false


; ---------------- SIMULATION ----------------
; Disable keyboard input to the console
;simNoInput = false

; How many simulated nodes to launch with a minimum of one
;simCount = 1

; The node to focus on at startup. The first node starts at 0
;simFocus = 0

; The network structure of the simulated network
; Choices: FILE | SQUARE | LONG | LOOPS | ALOT | ALOT+ | TREE | CIRCLES
;simNet = LONG

; The path to the sim node file for simNet=FILE
;simNetFile = 

; Simulated drop rate for packets. Number of messages to drop out of 1000
;simDropRate = 0

; Time offset between clocks in simulated nodes
;simTimeOffset = 0s

; If enabled, the node will keep track of recently sent messages that can be displayed
; in the console with the "m" command
;simRuntimeLog = false

; Pause the processing of entries in the processlist. Equivalent to the "W" command
;simWait = false


; ---------------- DEBUG ----------------
; The mode of the debug console.
; Choices:
;   OFF: no debug console (default)
;   LOCAL: only accepts connections from localhost and launches a terminal
;   ON: accepts remote connections
;debugConsole = OFF

; The port to launch the console server
;debugConsolePort = 8093

; The behavior of validating chain heads on boot
; Choices:
;   OFF: don't check at all
;   IGNORE: check but don't fix
;   ON: check and automatically fix invalid chain heads
;chainHeadFix = ON

; If enabled, all entries for one factom-minute will be handled by a VM index 0
; instead of being distributed over all VMs
;oneLeader = false

; Keep the node's DBState even if the signature doesn't match with the majority
;keepMismatch = false

; Force the height on the second pass sync. Set to -1 to disable, 0 to force a complete sync
;forceSync2Height = -1


; ---------------- JOURNALING ----------------
; Path to the journal file. Journaling disabled if left blank.
;journalFile = 

; Whether to create a new journal or play back an existing journal
; Choices: CREATE | READ
;journalMode = READ

; Force the node to run the journal as a specific node type.
; Choices:
;   AUTO: let node determine (default)
;   FOLLOWER: node is a follower
;   LEADER: node is a leader
;journalType = AUTO


; ---------------- PLUGINS ----------------
; In order for plugins to be enabled, the binaries have to be located inside the plugin folder
; Path to the plugin binaries folder.
;pluginPath = 

; Enable torrent sync plugin 
;pluginTorrent = false

; If enabled, the node is an upload in the torrent network
;pluginTorrentUpload = false


; ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
; Configurations for factom-walletd
; ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Walletd]
; These are the username and password that factom-walletd requires
; This file is also used by factom-cli to determine what login to use
WalletRpcUser = 
WalletRpcPass =

; These define if the connection to the wallet should be encrypted, and if it is, what files
; are the secret key and the public certificate.  factom-cli uses the certificate specified here if TLS is enabled.
; To use default files and paths leave /full/path/to/... in place.
WalletTlsEnabled                      = false
WalletTlsPrivateKey                   = "/full/path/to/walletAPIpriv.key"
WalletTlsPublicCert                   = "/full/path/to/walletAPIpub.cert"

; This is where factom-walletd and factom-cli will find factomd to interact with the blockchain
; This value can also be updated to authorize an external ip or domain name when factomd creates a TLS cert
FactomdLocation                       = "localhost:8088"

; This is where factom-cli will find factom-walletd to create Factoid and Entry Credit transactions
; This value can also be updated to authorize an external ip or domain name when factom-walletd creates a TLS cert
WalletdLocation                       = "localhost:8089"

; Enables wallet database encryption on factom-walletd. If this option is enabled, an unencrypted database
; cannot exist. If an unencrypted database exists, the wallet will exit.
WalletEncrypted                       = false


[factomd.MAIN]
FERPublicKey: daf5815c2de603dbfa3e1e64f88a5cf06083307cf40da4a9b539c41832135b4a
blockTime: 10m
p2pPort: 8108
p2pSeed: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FactomProject/factomproject.github.io/master/seed/mainseed.txt

[factomd.TEST]
p2pFERPublicKey: 1d75de249c2fc0384fb6701b30dc86b39dc72e5a47ba4f79ef250d39e21e7a4f
p2pPort: 8109
p2pSeed: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FactomProject/factomproject.github.io/master/seed/testseed.txt

[factomd.LOCAL]
p2pFERPublicKey: 3b6a27bcceb6a42d62a3a8d02a6f0d73653215771de243a63ac048a18b59da29
p2pPort: 8110
p2pSeed: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FactomProject/factomproject.github.io/master/seed/localseed.txt

[factomd.fct_community_test]
p2pFERPublicKey: 58cfccaa48a101742845df3cecde6a9f38037030842d34d0eaa76867904705ae
blockTime: 10m
bootstrapIdentity: 8888882f5002ff95fce15d20ecb7e18ae6cc4d5849b372985d856b56e492ae0f
bootstrapKey: 58cfccaa48a101742845df3cecde6a9f38037030842d34d0eaa76867904705ae
p2pPort: 8110
p2pSeed: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FactomProject/communitytestnet/master/seeds/testnetseeds.txt
```

## Short Flags

* `-n` short for `Network`
* `-h` short for `HomeDir`
* `-b` short for `BlockTime`
* `-db` short for `dbType` 
* `-fb` short for `dbFastBoot`
* `-p` short for `p2pSpecialPeer`
* `-l` short for `logLevel`
* `-m` short for `logMessages`
* `-sc` short for `simCount`
* `-sn` short for `simNet`

# Implementation

The configuration code is placed in its own "config" package under `factomd/config`. To parse command line flags, the `go-flags` package is used as it provides built-in support for grouping, short/long flags, and enum types. To parse the config file, the `go-ini` package is used to improve malleability and improved group support (like subgroups for networks).

The configuration itself is only specified in one location: the `config/configuration.go` file, which contains the struct that the config is parsed into. 

# Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via
[CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
